---
layout: post
title: Postdoc
subtitle: Research fellow in plant ecological genetics
categories: news
---

The **Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment** at **Western Sydney University** is seeking to appoint an energetic academic to a Level A position within the Plant, Animal, and Interactions theme. This 3-year, full-time, postdoctoral fellowship will focus on research related to understanding the capacity of trees to respond to climate change, and determining the importance of genetic adaptation and phenotypic plasticity.

The successful applicant will lead the molecular analyses from experimental design to bioinformatic and population genomic analyses. Molecular analyses will be linked to plant trait, growth and physiological responses of genotypes grown under contrasting rainfall environments in provenance trials in Western Australia, and climatic manipulations in HIE growth facilities.

Expected research outcomes include a detailed understanding of genetic adaptation and physiological tolerance to climate change, along with the development of a scientific basis for the adoption of assisted gene migration to ensure drought-resilience in future forests.

The incumbent will have the opportunity to work with a broad scientific team: Dr Paul Rymer (HIE) in population genomics and evolutionary ecology, Prof. David Tissue (HIE) in plant ecophysiology, Prof. Giles Hardy (Murdoch University) in plant ecology and stressors, and Dr Margaret Byrne (Western Australian Department of Parks and Wildlife) in conservation genetics.

**Remuneration Package:** Academic Level A $71,865 to $86,824 p.a. plus 9.5% Superannuation, plus Leave Loading.

**Position Enquiries:** Dr Paul Rymer, (02) 4570 1094 or p.rymer[at]westernsydney.edu.au

**Closing Date:** 27 March 2016

[Further information and applications here](https://uws.nga.net.au/cp/index.cfm?event=jobs.jati&returnToEvent=jobs.home&jobID=8DC81A8D-0204-65C6-F567-91B7EA3B868B&audienceTypeCode=PRE&UseAudienceTypeLanguage=1)
